h1. annarbor_parking

Note, this is an example only at the moment as Ann Arbor, MI has recently closed public access to their parking data. Therefore this example will not work with that data set. For more information on the closure you may refer to this <a href="http://www.voiptechchat.com/voip/255/a2dda-blocks-asterisk-parking-data/">blog post</a>.

* <a href="http://jsgoecke.github.com/annarbor_parking">http://jsgoecke.github.com/annarbor_parking</a>

h2. Description

Provides an example Adhearsion component that exposes the Ann Arbor, MI parking lot space availability (<a href="http://www.a2dda.org/parking__transportation/available_parking_spots/">http://www.a2dda.org/parking.php</a>) via an IVR. This example was inspired by the folks @ VoIP Tech Chat and their <a href="http://www.voiptechchat.com/voip/218/use-asterisk-cepstral-and-perl-to-get-parking-and-weather-updates/comment-page-1/">Perl example</a>.

h2. Example

Here is an example for your dialplan.rb:

<pre>
<code>
  sandbox {
  #Get an Array of Hashes that contains the parking availability details
  #by location
  parking_spaces = fetch_available_spaces

  #Then build a soundfile from that data to playback to the user
  menu_soundfile = lot_details(parking_spaces)``

  #Now lets ask the user for their input
  lot_selected = input 1,
                 :timeout => 30.seconds,
                 :play => menu_soundfile

  #Now that we have the user selection, lets build the sound file of the 
  #available spaces and play it back to the user
  if lot_selected != nil
    spaces_soundfile = spaces_available(parking_spaces, lot_selected)
    play spaces_soundfile
  end

  hangup
}
</code>
</pre>

h2. Requirements

* <a href="http://github.com/why/hpricot/tree/master">hpricot</a>
* <a href="http://www.cstr.ed.ac.uk/projects/festival/">Festival</a>

h2. Install

In the ~ahn_project/components directory:

<pre>git clone git://github.com/jsgoecke/annarbor_parking.git</pre>

Create a new directory, for the generated Text to Speech files, read/writeable by the user running Adhearsion, by default it is:

<pre>/var/lib/asterisk/sounds/surveys</pre>

You may change the location in the annarbor_parking.yml file, just keep in mind that the user running Asterisk must also have read access.

h2. License

The MIT License
 
Copyright (c) 2009 Jason Goecke
 
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
 
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.